# Movie-Recommendation
#### Goal
For this project, I had three primary goals in mind. First was to increase the number of movies being watched by consumers. Second was to keep the users entertained by actually recommending movies they are likely to be interested in, which will not only keep the consumers engaged, but also entertain them for a long duration of time. Our third goal was to help grow the number of subscribers for various platforms such as Netflix, Disney Plus, Hulu, Peacock and such. After doing research, I came to the conclusion that to accomplish our goals, I had to build a movie recommendation system, which should help achieve all of our business goals.
#### Data Understanding
The data we utilized in this project is called, “MovieLens 20M Dataset”, which was acquired from Kaggle. The dataset contained information from January 09, 1995 to March 31, 2015, hence the dataset was large. In fact, there are about 138,493 total users with 20,000,263 ratings. In addition to that, there are about 27,262 different movies. Both the movies and the ratings datasets were clean for the most part. As a matter of fact, there weren’t any null values present in any of the datasets, which was a good thing. We had about six different features in the datasets and they are: UserId, MovieID, Rating, TimeStamp, Title, and Genres.
#### Matrix Factorization Algorithms
The general idea behind this is to use the combination of users and movies. As compare to collaborative filtering and content-based filtering the SVD (singular value decomposition) model provides less error rate if we check (Mean Absolute Error (mae), Root Mean Squared Error (rmse) and Mean Squared Error (mse))

